
lua-hapi
========

Lua bindings for the HAPI open-source haptics library.

[lua-hapi homepage on GitHub][home]

Maintained by the [Vance Research Team][jmvance] at Iowa State
University's Virtual Reality Applications Center. Original author: [Ryan
Pavlik][rp], <rpavlik@iastate.edu> <abiryan@ryand.net>

[home]:https://github.com/vance-group/lua-hapi
[jmvance]:http://www.vrac.iastate.edu/~jmvance/ "Judy M. Vance, Ph. D."
[rp]:http://academic.cleardefinition.com/ "Ryan Pavlik"

Compatibility
-------------
Tested to build and run on:

- Ubuntu 10.04 "Lucid" x86_64 (GCC/G++ 4.3.3, and with Clang/LLVM trunk revision 136715)

- Visual Studio 2008 SP1 (and Visual C++ 2008 Feature Pack) - see note below

	- Caveat: "Debug" configuration currently crashes during tests. "RelWithDebInfo" is fine.

Dependencies
------------
- Git, for downloading the source code and its dependencies.

- CMake 2.8.4 or newer, for building the source only. (not needed once
compiled and installed)

- Boost 1.35 or newer (headers only, as needed by Luabind - other HAPI
dependencies may require more)

- Lua 5.1 (on Windows, the Lua Binaries project offers libraries and
executables for a variety of compilers)

- Luabind - [Ryan Pavlik's fork][luabind] with a CMake-based build and
other improvements is recommended.

###Not a dependency:
A tested and slightly modified version of H3DUtil and HAPI are included
in the source tree as submodules, so you do NOT need to install them
separately first. (You can thank me later...)

[luabind]:https://github.com/rpavlik/luabind "Luabind, with Ryan Pavlik's modifications."

Getting the Source
------------------
###The quick version:
    git clone https://github.com/vance-group/lua-hapi
    cd lua-hapi
    git submodule update --init

###A bit of explanation
The git repository hosted at the [homepage][home] contains the source
for the bindings, and in "git submodules" the source of tested versions
of H3DUtil and HAPI (and on Windows, pthreads-win32). If you forget to
run the `git submodule update --init` command, these bundled
dependencies won't be downloaded, and you'll get an error message when
running CMake as a reminder.



Building
--------
Just run CMake, being sure to set a build directory that is different
from your source directory. Tell it where to find any dependencies it
can't locate. Then, build the generated project/makefiles in the binary
directory.

The H3DUtil, HAPI, and pthreads-win32 (if applicable) libraries are
configured and built in the same solution as the binding itself
automatically. They do add some items to the CMake interface that you
can configure to adjust device support.

Windows Notes
-------------
Visual Studio 2008 may produce a number of "Incremental Linker has
stopped working" errors on clean builds. Usually, attempting the build
again (without cleaning) will succeed, but this is a pain. A hotfix is
available from Microsoft: <http://archive.msdn.microsoft.com/KB948127>
After installing the hotfix, do a clean re-build of lua-hapi.

Acknowledgement
---------------
If you find this useful, we would appreciate hearing from you. If you
use this for academic work, we would also appreciate a copy of the
publication and a citation: this helps make a case for our work. You may
contact the main developer, Ryan Pavlik (Iowa State University), by
email at <rpavlik@iastate.edu> or <abiryan@ryand.net>.

Paper materials and copies of publications may be mailed to:

> Ryan Pavlik
>
> Virtual Reality Applications Center
>
> 1620 Howe Hall
>
> Ames, Iowa 50011-2274
>
> USA

Licenses
--------
The full package is free and open-source software, under a variety of licenses.

### lua-hapi - BSL 1.0
The lua-hapi binding files themselves (the files in `src/`) are subject
to the following license:

> Copyright Iowa State University 2011.
>
> Distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0.
>
> (See accompanying file `LICENSE_1_0.txt` or copy at
> <http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt>)

### H3DUtil and HAPI libraries (bundled) - GPL v2+
The bundled HAPI and H3DUtil source code submodules, built automatically
as shared libraries, are subject to the following license:

> Copyright 2004-2011, SenseGraphics AB
>
> HAPI is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
> it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
> the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
> (at your option) any later version.
>
> HAPI is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
> but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
> MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
> GNU General Public License for more details.
>
> You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
> along with HAPI; if not, write to the Free Software
> Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
>
> A commercial license is also available. Please contact us at
> www.sensegraphics.com for more information.

HAPI includes "Function parser for C++ v2.8 by Warp", also available
under the GNU GPL - see `submodules/hapi/include/HAPI/fparser.txt` for
details.

*Note that HAPI may build support for devices whose libraries are not
open-source - be sure to conform with license requirements when
redistributing!* (This is not legal advice, and I am not a lawyer.)

### pthreads-win32 (bundled) - LGPL v2+
The bundled pthreads-win32 source code submodule, built automatically as
a shared library when on Windows, is subject to the following license:


> Pthreads-win32 - POSIX Threads Library for Win32
>
> Copyright &copy; 1998 John E. Bossom
>
> Copyright &copy; 1999-2011 Pthreads-win32 contributors
>
> This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
> modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
> License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
> version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
>
> This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
> but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
> MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
> Lesser General Public License for more details.
>
> You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
> License along with this library in the file COPYING.LIB;
> if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
> 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA

### Luabind (dependency) - MIT License
Luabind is required to build lua-hapi, and is subject to the following license:

> Copyright &copy; 2003-2011 Daniel Wallin and Arvid Norberg
>
> Copyright &copy; 2008-2011 Contributers
>
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
> copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
> to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
> the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
> and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
> Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
> in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
> ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
> TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
> PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
> SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR
> ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
> ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
> OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE
> OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

### Lua 5.1 (dependency) - MIT License
Lua 5.1 is required to build Luabind and lua-hapi, and is subject to the
following license:

> Copyright &copy; 1994–2011 Lua.org, PUC-Rio.
>
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
> a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
> "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,including
> without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
> distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
> permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
> the following conditions:
>
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
> in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
> OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
> MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
> IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
> CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
> TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
> SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
